member."
"Do you suppose, if you had been a poor devil of a clerk, instead of
a millionaire's son, you would have been voted in?" asked Ainsley, a
trifle bitterly, a hard light flashing into his eyes.
"Possibly not," replied Ravenswood, with a good-humored laugh.
"I should have thought you would have improved the opportunity of
seeing considerable of the Three Graces awheel," said Ainsley, after a
few moments' pause.
"Their fathers discourage anything of that kind," laughed Philip; "as
more than one young man has found out."
"But Miss May's relatives--do none of them ride?"
"They are too old for that sort of thing," laughed Ravenswood. "The old
gentleman is as deaf as a post, and is relegated to the hotel piazza
because of the gout. His wife is equally as deaf, and is too unwieldly
to venture far from her corner of the piazza. It is laughable to hear
them shout at each other through their ear-trumpets. I have often
thought what a lonely life of it that beautiful young girl must have
with those two old people. It would be unendurable, I fancy, if it were
not for her two young friends."
"Probably they make up for not being companionable by not being so
strict with their pretty prospective little heiress?" suggested
Ainsley, again listening eagerly for his friend's reply.
"They certainly allow their granddaughter, or niece, whichever she is,
more liberty than Hildegarde's or Lily Ryder's parents do. Still, I
suppose they are confident that she can come to no harm, surrounded by
such careful friends and companions."
"Did you say, Philip, you were going to the fancy-dress masquerade
tournament?" asked Royal Ainsley, slowly.
"I do not propose to miss it," responded Ravenswood.
"Do you think you can secure me a ticket, Phil?" asked Ainsley,
point-blank. "Grant me that favor if you can. Remember, I ask it _as a
great favor_. Surely you can manage it somehow for me."
"I'll try," replied Ravenswood. "If it's possible, you shall attend."
During the next few days that followed, handsome Royal Ainsley saw as
much of the Three Graces as was possible. One day he was content with
a bow or a smile--on the next, a few words in passing; but he was wise
enough to keep out of the way whenever their relatives were about.
CHAPTER III.
The fancy-dress masquerade cycle carnival had been the talk of
fashionable circles in Newport for the last fortnight, and now, as the
auspicious evening drew near, excitement was almost at fever heat.
The tickets of admission had been closely guarded; gold could not buy
them. The tickets, which were strictly _not transferable_, had been
duly delivered by messengers to the different members whose names they
bore, and the promoters of the affair felt duly satisfied that no one
outside the charmed circle of Newport's fashionable Four Hundred could
by any possibility invade the sacred precincts.
A whole army of officers were to guard against intruders. There was
to be a banquet in the supper-room at midnight, after the masks of
the merry cyclers had been removed, that would be so startling in its
sumptuousness that the whole country would be talking about it, and
those who had been fortunate enough to attend would never forget it in
their after lives.
Philip Ravenswood had indeed done his utmost to secure the admittance
of his friend; but even he had failed signally. The officers were
inexorable in their polite but firm refusal to his request.
Two hours later the grand masquerade cycle carnival was at its height.
The marble walls of the millionaire club never held a more brilliant
gathering of ladies fair, with eyes behind silken masks brighter than
the diamonds they wore, and men braver than the famous knights of old
in their powdered wigs, satin knee-breeches and spangled waistcoats.
One wheelman, in the costume of handsome Romeo, sprung from his wheel
near one of the fountains, and watched with keen eyes through his mask
the cyclers as they passed him one after another.
"Aha! I have them at last," he muttered, as he noted three wood-nymphs
hovering close together. "Well, I declare, I thought I should have
little difficulty in distinguishing one from the other," he muttered;
"but to save my life, I can not tell them apart. I shall trust to fate
to choose for me, hoping it will be the beauteous Hildegarde."
Suddenly two plumed cavaliers sprung from their wheels before the two
foremost wood-nymphs, and asked permission in silent pantomime to ride
as their escorts around the rink, which request was graciously acceded
to, but with the dignity of young princesses.
"This is my opportunity," thought Romeo. "I must claim the remaining
wood-nymph before some other fellow has the chance to capture her."
The next instant he was bowing low before her.
"May I have the great honor of riding as your escort around the rink,
fair wood-nymph?" he whispered in a low, melodious voice. "Ah, pardon
my speaking; it was purely a slip of the tongue. I should have made
known my request in pantomime. But pray forgive, and do not betray
me, fairest of all maidens, to the floor manager, pray, or I shall be
ordered from the floor in deep disgrace."
"If she answers, I shall know by her voice which one of the three
heiresses she is," he thought.
"Oh, I shall not betray you, Mr. Ainsley," replied the girl, with a
jolly little laugh, showing the whitest of pearly teeth, "and I accept
your escort to ride with me. I--I am so afraid of tumbling off my
wheel, this gay throng and the flashing lights bewilder me so. I--I was
just wondering if you would be here to-night."
"Fair maid, you know me?" he whispered, in apparent amazement. "I am
astounded, yet flattered. Pray be kind enough to exchange confidences.
I have been hoping against hope that _you_ are the one whom I longed to
see here. Surely the throbbings of my heart tell me who you are, fair
nymph. Shall I breathe to you the name of her whom I ardently wish it
to be?" he asked, softly.
"Yes," she answered, eagerly; and there was no mistaking the
characteristic catching of the breath, and the intense, eager gaze in
the velvety eyes behind the silken mask.
He crushed the furtive hope that had stirred his heart for an instant
that it might be Hildegarde, and answered, boldly:
"I prayed the fates to lead me to the feet of beauteous Ida May! Oh,
tell me--am I right? Do be kind, and tell me."
"Then the fates have answered your prayer," she replied. "I suppose I
ought _not_ to tell you until unmasking time, but really I can not help
it. I _am_ Ida May."
"Thanks, ten thousand thanks for ending my suspense, dear girl,"
he murmured, as only Royal Ainsley could utter the words. A few
sweeps around the rink, where handsome Romeo, with his superb fancy
riding, was the cynosure of all eager feminine eyes, midst murmurs
of admiration, then he whispered to his companion: "Come into the
conservatory; the air is too close here. You are riding as though you
were dizzy. Are you?"
"Yes," she answered. "I _must_ have air. I----"
The wheel suddenly wobbled recklessly from side to side, as though its
rider had lost control of it entirely.
Royal Ainsley sprung from his wheel just in time to prevent her from
falling, and in that instant he crushed her closely to his heart, then
as quickly released her.
The excitement was so great, no one noticed this little by-play, or
saw Romeo lead the fair wood-nymph from amid the glittering lights to
the shadowy depths of the cool conservatory. Standing their wheels
against a marble Flora, he found a rustic bench on which he placed
her, taking a seat beside her, dangerously near, his hand closing over
the fluttering little white one, his handsome head, with its fair,
clustering hair, bent near her own. A half hour they spent amid the
dim, cool shadows, the perfume of the roses enfolding them, the soft,
low, bewildering echo of the delicious music floating out to them.
Remember, the young girl was only seventeen, dear reader, otherwise the
place, and the scene, and the fair, handsome lover by her side could
not have infatuated her so quickly or so deeply.
"This is heaven!" he whispered. "How I wish we could linger here
forever, Ida--I your devoted knight, and you my queen, the world
forgetting, by the world forgot! Do _you_ wish it could be so?"
The low cadence of his voice; the thrilling touch of that strong, white
hand that was stealing around the supple waist, drawing her toward
him; the panting of his breath, which she could feel on her flushed
cheek; the mesmeric, steady gaze of those bright blue, shining eyes,
bewildered her--made her heart flutter as it had never fluttered
before.
"Do you wish we could be always together, Ida?" he persisted.
"Yes," answered the girl, with a half sob of affright, trembling under
the strange spell that had slowly but surely been cast over her.
"Then marry me, Ida!" he cried, "this very night--within the hour, and
no one can ever part us after that! Oh, Ida, do not refuse me!" he
urged. "I love you so that I would die for you. Fate surely intended us
for each other, or we would never have met and loved as we do. Oh, my
darling, you can not deny it! You do love me, Ida May?"
She strove with all her might to deny it; but, in spite of herself,
he wrung the truth from her lips--that she _did_ love him. A sudden
light that she could not quite understand leaped up into his eyes for a
moment, and a triumphant smile curved his lips.
"We shall be married to-night, Ida!" he cried. "I will arrange it
somehow;" and as he uttered the words, he told himself that the great
heiress was as good as won.
CHAPTER IV.
The crash of the music, the hum of voices, and the song of the rippling
fountains seemed to dazzle Ida May's senses.
"Promise me that you will marry me, my darling!" cried the impetuous
lover. "Would it be so very difficult, Ida?" he whispered.
She clung to him, the terror deepening in her eyes.
"This is a little romance all our own," he added, clasping her
closely. "Ida, let me kiss you!" He clasped his arms around her and
drew her to his breast. "You are mine in life, mine in death, and mine
through all eternity!"
He kissed the sweet lips over and over again.
She was so young that she believed him.
"Let us be married first, then we can talk over all these things
after!" he exclaimed, impetuously.
She was dazed by his passionate words.
He felt quite sure that this sweet, beautiful, dainty young girl could
not hold out against him if he only persisted.
One more bold stroke, and the heiress would be his.
There would be a scene, he well knew, when he brought the young girl
back to the old folks. But it would surely end by their forgiving her.
They could not hold out against her very long.
"You are--sure--it--it--would be right, Mr. Ainsley?" she faltered.
"You must not call me 'mister' sweet one," he cried. "To you I shall
be 'Royal' from now on to eternity. Let me manage this affair, my
darling," he added.
All power of resistance seemed swallowed up by his indomitable will.
"Go to the cloak-room, my love," he whispered, "and change your attire
as quickly as you can. I will meet you at the fountain nearest the
entrance. Not one word to either of your friends, Ida," he said,
warningly. "Promise me that!"
There was no crossing him. Indeed, the very power to even think for
herself seemed to have left her.
Like one in a dream, Ida May donned her street clothes, the thought
filling her mind of what Hildegarde and Lily would say when it was
unmasking time and they came to look for her. How startled they would
be!
Outside all was confusion. There was a great crush of carriages, the
babble of coachmen and footmen, the crunching of wheels, and the
calling of numbers. To the girl whom Royal Ainsley led on to so strange
a fate it seemed like a dream. Some one followed with their wheels.
Royal Ainsley took them from the man, and she saw him toss him several
pieces of silver.
He did not tell her that he had written a note to an old minister,
living two miles out of the village, asking him to remain at home to
marry them. No name had been signed to the note; but he had argued to
himself that the minister, who probably was sadly in need of making an
extra dollar, would stay at home to perform the ceremony. If his plans
matured well, all well and good; if they miscarried, well, no one would
be the wiser as to who sent the letter.
He assisted her to mount her wheel, and, as if in a dream, they went
speeding down the boulevard.
"We must make quicker time, my darling," he said.
Was it a sob he heard coming from the girl's lips? Ida May seemed to
have suddenly awakened to a sense of what she had done. A brief half
hour since she had been in the midst of a brilliant party, and now,
scarcely knowing how it had come about, she found herself flying with
the handsome lover, whom she had known but a few short weeks, going she
knew not whither.
The awakening came to her like a terrible shock.
"Royal!" she cried, "oh, Royal, what have we done? Where are we going?
I did not mean to run away. I must have been mad. Let us go back
again!"
As she spoke, the great clock from some adjoining tower struck the hour
of twelve.
"We are too late," he said. "We have burned our bridges behind us. They
are unmasking now, and they have missed you. They will soon institute a
search."
She clasped his arm.
"Oh, Royal! I must tell you all!"
The hot, trembling hand clung to him, the lovely young face was full of
awful grief.
"My own darling!" he cried, leaning over and rapturously embracing her,
though in doing so he nearly caused her to fall from her wheel.
Suddenly the heavens overhead seemed to darken, the wind to freshen,
and the booming of the waves, as they dashed heavily against the shore,
sounded dismally in the distance.
"We must make haste," said Royal Ainsley; "there is a storm coming up.
I think we could save nearly half a mile by cutting across this field."
He swung open a gate opening out into a broad patch of land, and Ida
rode in.
CHAPTER V.
"I see a light glimmering in a window a short distance away. I will
take you there, and walk back to the village to get some kind of a
conveyance."
In a few moments they found themselves knocking for admission at the
little cottage from whence they had observed the light.
His impatient knock brought a white, terrified face to a window which
was opened above.
"What do you want?" asked a voice in unmistakable tones of fear.
"I must have shelter for this young lady for a little while," exclaimed
Ainsley, impatiently; adding: "I will pay you handsomely if you will
allow her to remain here an hour or two, until I can go for a carriage
for her."
The window was closed quickly down again, and Royal heard some one say
quite distinctly:
"I tell you it is only a _ruse_. It is an officer of the law."
Again Royal knocked impatiently.
"It is commencing to rain," he called. "For Heaven's sake, open the
door quickly!"
Despite the sobs and protestations of the voice inside, a man opened
the door and stepped out, confronting them. One hand held a lighted
lamp and the other rested upon his hip pocket.
To Royal Ainsley's intense astonishment, he found that he was at the
summer cottage of Newport's haughty mayor.
"I beg your pardon," stammered the man, in dire confusion.
"It is rather late to awaken any one; but you have heard the words,
'any port in a storm'? The truth is, I want to find shelter for this
young lady until I can go for a conveyance to take her to a minister
who is awaiting us to perform the marriage ceremony."
"Oh, that is it!" exclaimed the mayor, with a look of relief coming
over his face. "An elopement, eh?"
"All is fair in love, you know," laughed the young man, leading Ida
into the parlor, his host preceding them.
"Who are you, and who is the young lady?" inquired the man.
It was Royal's turn to hesitate now. If he found out that the young
girl clinging to his arm was the heiress of the Mays, would he not
refuse to perform the ceremony until they could be communicated with?
"I am Royal Ainsley," answered the young man, affecting not to hear the
last part of the question; and Ida, thinking she was called upon to
speak, responded, promptly:
"And I am Ida May, sir."
The mayor wheeled about quickly.
"What! Did I hear you say the name May? Are you the young girl stopping
at the Ocean House whom they call the niece of the Mays?"
The girl was trembling so she could not answer.
"We might as well put a bold front on the matter," whispered Royal,
clasping quickly the ice-cold hands.
"She is, sir," he answered, with an air of assurance which he was far
from feeling.
The effect of his words upon his host was wonderful. An expression that
was almost diabolical flashed over his face.
"Hold!" he cried. "You need look no further for a minister; I will
perform the ceremony. It is a pity for the young lady to have to go out
in the storm to have a little service like that rendered. Old May's
niece!" he muttered under his breath. "Ah, what a glorious revenge it
is for me to give her to this profligate! Of course, old May don't know
anything about the escapade of this girl!"
He clinched his hands tightly together as he looked at her. There was
no feature of old John May perceptible in this slender little creature;
but for all that, he hated her--ay, he hated her with a deadly hatred.
_He knew why._
"I will help you in this affair," he said, with a peculiar laugh that
might mean much or might mean little.
The ceremony was not a long one, and almost before Ida could realize
what was taking place, Royal Ainsley was bending over her, and calling
her his dear little wife. But there was something about the kiss that
he laid on her lips that made a strange shiver creep over her.
Royal Ainsley could hardly conceal his triumph. No matter if the Mays
did find her now, they could not undo what had been done. He had wedded
her and her millions!
"Is there a train that leaves for New York?" he asked.
"Yes; one passes here in about twenty minutes from now. By cutting
across over to that side road you could easily catch it."
Half an hour later, they were steaming toward the city as fast as steam
could carry them. The dark curly head nestled against his shoulder,
while Royal looked out of the window, out into the blackness of the
night, little dreaming that he was on the eve of a terrible tragedy.
He had been lucky enough to secure the little compartment at the rear
of the drawing-room car, which those who have money enough to pay for
can secure exclusively for themselves.
"I ought to tell you something that is weighing very heavily upon my
mind, Royal," she said, nestling closer to her fair, handsome, boyish
husband.
"Not until to-morrow, love," he declared, drawing her toward him, and
kissing her fondly.
CHAPTER VI.
It was early the next morning when the Newport express steamed into the
Grand Central Depot.
Royal Ainsley cast a furtive glance around him as he stepped upon the
platform. He had quite expected a dozen or more detectives to spring
forward, for, of course, the telegraph wires had been busy during the
night.
They would no doubt be waiting to arrest him for abducting the heiress.
But when he had blandly informed them that lovely Ida May was his wife,
what could they do but fall back abashed and disconcerted.
To his great surprise, he seemed to create no sensation whatever. No
one even noticed him as he joined the throng, with Ida May clinging
tightly to his arm.
"I will give them some little trouble to find us," he thought to
himself.
He knew of a quiet, aristocratic family hotel facing the park, and
placing Ida in a carriage, he took a seat beside her, and directed the
driver to proceed as quickly as possible to the place indicated.
Whirling through the streets of gay New York was quite a sensation to
Ida, who had never been outside of her own country village, save for
that fateful trip to Newport.
With Royal clasping her two little fluttering hands in one of his
strong white ones, his left arm holding her close as the cab rattled
up Broadway, her fear of the noise, the great rush of people hurrying
hither and thither, and the great crush of vehicles that threatened to
demolish them every moment, gradually subsided as they rode along.
They reached their destination, and a moment more were ushered into the
little white-and-gold parlor.
"We will have the best breakfast that they can prepare," said Royal,
"and then I shall take you to see the sights of the city."
He was obliged to take the hotel clerk into his confidence.
"It's an elopement," he whispered in the clerk's ear. "My bride is the
heiress of the wealthy Mays, of Boston. There may be a deuce of a row
when they trace us to this place, but it will end all right by the
fatted calf being killed for us. But as for the breakfast, how long
will it take to prepare it?"
"Not more than fifteen minutes," returned the clerk, with an obsequious
bow. "We will send up to the parlor, and let you know when it is
ready," he added.
He turned away with a royal air. Already he felt as if the May millions
were in his pocket, that he was a man to be envied, that he was of
great importance.
Royal Ainsley immediately joined Ida in the parlor. He found her
ensconced in one of the large velvet easy-chairs, looking out of the
window, with something very like fright in her great dark eyes.
"Oh, Royal, are you sure it is quite right?" she sobbed. "Did you want
me to marry you so very much?"
"What a silly little girl you are!" he cried, impetuously. "Of course,
I want you. I could not live without you. I know you must be very
hungry, as well as tired from loss of sleep. Come over to this sofa and
sit down, and we will talk over our plans."
"Royal," she whispered, clasping his hands closer, "you would not
listen to me when I tried to tell you something in the conservatory;
but you must listen to me now. I can not be quite happy, dear, until
you know all. I--I have a confession to make."
He looked at her blankly.
"What odd words you use, my darling Ida!" he said. "A confession! I do
not like to hear you use such an expression. I hope that there is no
other lover in the background?"
"It is not a lover!" she cried, clinging to him. "I have never loved
any one else but you!"
"Then it is all right, my angel!" he cried, brightly, gathering her
closely to him, despite the fact that people were passing in the
corridor outside, and had a full view of all that was taking place
within the room. She struggled out of his arms, blushing like a peony,
even though she was his bride.
"Sit opposite me, where I can see you, and it will not be so hard to
tell you _all_," sobbed Ida, faintly.
He complied with her wishes.
"Cut the story as short as possible, dear," he said, "or you will be
obliged to have it continued in our next, as breakfast will soon be
ready."
"Oh, how shall I tell you the truth, Royal!" she said, distressedly.
"Perhaps you won't smile so when you know all, and--and--you might even
hate me."
"No matter what the little story is that you have to tell me, my
darling, I will love you better than ever."
"Oh, Royal, are you sure of it?" she cried, with that frightened look
which puzzled him so.
"Yes; I give you my word beforehand, that, no matter what you have to
tell me, I will love you all the more!"
"I will tell you all, then, and throw myself on your mercy to forgive
me for the past," she sobbed. "Hold my hands, Royal, closely in your
own, while I tell you all of the pitiful past, from beginning to end;
and then, Royal, you shall kiss my tears away, even--oh, Heaven, pity
me!--though I have sinned beyond pardon!"
CHAPTER VII.
Little dreaming of the purport of the story Ida had to tell, Royal
Ainsley drew near. For a moment, Ida May's great somber eyes looked
into his as though she would read his very soul.
"Tell me over again that you will forgive me, no matter what it is that
I have to tell you."
"I have already given you that promise over and over again," he
declared. "Surely you don't want me to take an oath to that effect?"
"Not if your solemn promise is strong enough to bind you."
"You forget that you are wasting time, Ida?" he said, good-humoredly.
"It will not take me long to tell my sad little story," she answered,
with a half sob; "and oh, what a world of comfort it will be for me to
know that you will care for me, no matter what the world may think.
When you hear my story you will understand the great temptation, and
will not judge me too cruelly.
"To begin with, my mother and I lived with a very wealthy family in
Dorchester. My mother was housekeeper, and I--well, I had no regular
position there, until, owing to the meager salary they paid my mother,
I was compelled to learn telegraphy, and found a position at the
station. To gain my mother's consent to do this was extremely hard.
"'They will not be pleased, Ida,' she said, piteously.
"'What do the Deerings care for you or me?' I answered, bitterly. 'Only
to make you toil year in and year out for a pittance so meager that it
scarcely keeps body and soul together!'
"'But they allow me to keep you with me, my dear child. That is
everything to a mother who is poor,' she sighed.
"'I am not a child any longer,' I cried. 'I am quite sixteen. I must be
making money now, if ever, to help you!'
"'But what can you do?' she asked.
"When I told her my plans, she looked at me dubiously.
"'Surely Mrs. Deering would not object,' I declared.
"But she did object. To my surprise she flew into a terrible rage when
I summoned courage enough to go to the morning-room the next day and
asked to speak to her.
"I unfolded to the cold, proud woman my plans to make a living. She did
not wait to hear me through, but flew into such a passion of rage that
I drew back in terror.
"'I have different plans for you entirely, Ida May,' she said. 'Go to
your mother. I told her my plans scarcely half an hour ago. She will
unfold them to you. Mind, they must be carried out by you, or your
mother and you will suffer. Your father owed us a sum of money before
he died, and during the past years your mother has worked to pay us
off. Over one-half yet remains to be paid. Your mother's name is signed
to your father's notes of indebtedness, and she is responsible for
them. If I pressed for payment and she could not pay, she could be
thrown into a debtor's prison.'
"I sobbed aloud in my terror: 'Oh, Mrs. Deering, if this indeed be
true, there is more need than ever for me to earn money to pay off my
mother's debts.'
"'There is another way in which you can pay them off,' she answered.
"'Oh, how?' I cried, falling on my knees and clasping my hands.
"The answer came like a crash of thunder from a clear sky.
"'By marrying my nephew,' she said, harshly.
"I sprung to my feet in terror. Marry any one! I, who was only a child!
"'My mother would not consent to anything like that, even----'
"'She will be forced to consent!' was the harsh reply. 'My nephew will
be here in a week.'
"I found my mother walking her room, wringing her hands and tearing her
hair. Her excitement was so great that for a moment I was terrified.
"'Has she told you all, Ida?' she asked, in terror.
"'Yes, mother,' I answered.
"'And did she tell you what this nephew of hers was like?'
"'No,' I replied, greatly puzzled by her manner.
"She shuddered as with a terrible chill.
"'Listen, Ida,' she said, in a strained, awful voice: 'Her nephew is
such a horrid creature, that to be hated he needs but to be seen. He is
a hunchback--and--an idiot--has a touch of insanity about him. Except
the first few years of his life, he has been confined in an asylum.
This nephew has a bachelor uncle, who has declared his intention
to make the young man his heir if he marries when he is twenty-one.
Otherwise the great fortune goes to another branch of the family. They
would make a victim of you, wreck your beautiful young life for their
own ambitious aims. It will be six months before he is of age. But the
marriage shall never be, my darling. Your young life shall never be
sacrificed by these inhuman Shylocks. When the hour comes, we will die
together.'
"One day my mother met me with a white, awful face.
"'Mrs. Deering's nephew has arrived with a valet!' she cried, under her
breath.
"'But the six months are not up, mother," I cried. 'It wants a
fortnight to that time.'
"'He has come to stay until you make your decision.'
"Oh, God! the horror of it! Death a thousand times over would have been
preferable to that.
"How could I stand at the altar and promise to obey a creature the very
sight of whom filled me with disgust and terror?
"I fled through the village, not daring to look behind me, and never
stopping until I reached the telegraph office.
"It was little wonder that I made strange mistakes during the hour that
followed.
"It was during this time that Mrs. May stepped up to the window and
called for a blank.
"Although her name was the same as mine, yet we were in no way related
to each other. They were wealthy people from Boston, I had heard, and
were summering in the village.
"Without waiting to see the message sent, the lady hurried out of the
office. A great sigh broke from my lips as I noted the well-filled
purse that she carried, the magnificent diamonds she wore on her hands,
and which swung sparkling from her ears. Any one of the gems she wore
would have been a fortune to a poor girl like me.
"As she crossed the railway track in the direction of the post office,
she must have seen the train bearing down upon her from around the
curve of the road.
"However, she fainted away from fright, and lay directly on the track.
I had seen it all from my window, and I sprung to her rescue and
dragged her by main force from the track just in time to save her from
destruction, as the ponderous locomotive just then thundered by. Mrs.
May's gratitude was great when she recovered consciousness.
"'How shall I ever reward you, my good girl?' she cried.
"'I need no reward,' I answered. 'I would have done that for any one!'
"'You must be rewarded,' she declared. 'My husband is coming from
Boston to-night, and he will insist upon doing handsomely by you.'
"I was living at home with my poor old mother, and when I went home
that evening and told her the story, she wept like a child.
"'You did a noble action, Ida,' she said; adding slowly: 'The Mays
are very rich. I should not be surprised if they made you a handsome
present. I once knew a gentleman who gave a lad twenty-five dollars for
saving his son from drowning. Perhaps they may do as well by you.'
"You see, we were very poor--mother and I--and twenty-five dollars
seemed a great deal to us.
"'How much good we could do with that sum,' my mother said. 'We could
get a little ahead in our rent, and spare enough out of it to get a new
dress for you.'
"I clasped my hands. A new dress! Oh, surely it would be madness to
hope for such a thing!
"That evening Mrs. May sent for me to come to the grand cottage where
she was stopping. Her husband, a very deaf old gentleman, sat at
the window as I entered. They both thanked me in the most eager and
grateful fashion.
"'We have been thinking the matter over,' said Mrs. May, 'and I have
come to the conclusion that I will do something handsome for you--give
you a pleasure such as you have never experienced in your young life.'"
CHAPTER VIII.
"Mrs. May paused and looked smilingly at me for a moment or two.
"'So great is the treat I have in store for you that you will never
forget it. But Mr. May and I disagree slightly as to what it shall be.
We now lay the proposition before you. Which would you prefer--have
five hundred dollars in cash, or be taken to Newport for a season, have
lovely dresses, and stop at a great hotel, under _my_ protection, and
have as fine a time as any young girl at the sea-shore?'
"I cried aloud in the exuberance of my joy. I had read of the lives of
other young girls at the sea-shore, and this opportunity seemed like
the opening out of fairy-land to me. You will not blame me, Royal;
I was young and romantic. I had never seen anything of life or its
pleasures. A season at Newport! The very thought of it fairly took away
my breath.
"'Oh, I will go to Newport!' I cried. 'Then the great dream of my life
will be realized!'
"'My husband thought you would prefer the money, but I knew that you
would prefer the pleasure.'
"Half wild with joy, I went home and told my mother the wonderful news.
She shook her head sadly.
"'We are so poor, you should have chosen the money, Ida,' she sobbed.
'Such a great gift is offered you but once in a life-time!'
"'But what does Mrs. May want you to do for her, Ida? Are you to be her
maid?'
"'Oh, no, mother!' I cried, with a hysterical laugh. 'I am to be a
real lady, wear fine clothes, and sit on the porch reading novels, or
promenade on the sea-shore, from the time I get up in the morning till
I retire at night. I shall have pin-money, too, they say, and that I
will send home to you. So everything will go on with you while I am
away as it did while I was here.'
"We had never been parted from each other, mother and I, and oh! it
wrung her heart to say 'Yes.'
"But after much pleading on my part she consented to let me go. She
made one proviso, however, and that was--I was not to fall in love with
any one whom I might meet.
"Oh, I can not tell you of my delight when I saw the wonderful dresses
that Mrs. May purchased for me, saying that they were all my own
forever after. She took me to Newport with her. As my name was the same
as theirs, every one took it for granted that I was a niece of theirs,
instead of their _protégée_ for a few short weeks, a report which the
Mays did not trouble themselves to contradict."
She had told her story hastily, impetuously, not daring to look into
her lover's face until she had concluded. Then she raised her great
dark eyes slowly. But what she saw in her husband's face made her cry
out in terror.
"Oh, Royal! Royal! what is the matter?" she cried, in alarm.
He sat before her as though he were petrified. The glassy, horrified
stare in his eyes cut to her heart like the thrust of a sword.
"I married you for love. You have helped me to escape Mrs. Deering's
dreaded nephew," she faltered.
By a wonderful effort he found his voice.
"Not the heiress of the Mays!" he cried, hoarsely, as though he was
unable to realize the truth.
"You do not love me the less for what I have done, do you?" she cried,
catching her breath with a sharp sob.
Before he could find words to answer, breakfast was announced.
"Go in and eat your breakfast, Ida," he said. "I have some important
matters which I must attend to that will keep me busy for the next hour
to come. Don't wait for me. Lie down and rest until you hear from me.
You will need all your strength to meet that which is before you." And
his brows darkened ominously.
She was young, and youth has an appetite all its own. She was very
tired with all she had gone through the last few hours, and the
appetizing breakfast spread before her caused her to forget everything
else.
Like all young, healthy girls, she ate heartily; then she rose from the
table and re-entered the little parlor to wait for the coming of Royal
to ask him to send a telegram to her mother.
"Shall I show you to your room, miss?" asked the waiter.
"No," she answered. "I will wait here."
"Then here is a letter which has just been handed me to give to you."
She opened it, and found that it was from Royal.
For one moment Ida May looked with an expression of puzzled wonder at
the letter which the hotel waiter had handed her.
It was in Royal's handwriting; she saw that at once.
What could he write to her about, when he had been away from her
scarcely an hour? He probably wished to remind her to be sure to be
ready when he arrived.
"How he loves me!" she murmured, a pink flush stealing into the dimpled
cheeks. "What a happy girl I ought to be that my lover loves me so
well!"
The waiter had gone back to attend to his duty. She saw that she was
alone, and with a quick action she raised the envelope to her lips with
her little white hands and kissed it--ay, kissed passionately the sword
which was to slay her the next moment.
Seating herself in a cozy arm-chair close by the open window, Ida
May opened the letter which was to be her death-warrant, and read as
follows:
 "IDA, I suppose the contents of this note will give you something of
 a shock; but it is best to know the truth now than later on. I shall
 come to the point at once, that you may not be kept in suspense.
 "The truth is, Ida, that your confession has knocked all our little
 plans on the head. To write plainly, when I thoughtlessly married
 you, it was under the impression that you were the niece of the
 Mays--their future heiress. I have not told you much about myself in
 the past, but I am obliged to do so now.
 "I am not at all a rich fellow. I am working along as best I can,
 living on what people call wits--and expectations, which make me a
 veritable slave to the whims of a capricious old aunt and uncle.
 "They have decided that I must marry a girl who has money. I would
 not dare to present a portionless bride to them. In such a case, all
 my future prospects would be ruined. I must add that I have a still
 greater surprise for you. On leaving you, I purchased this morning's
 paper, and the first item that met my eye was the absconding of the
 man who performed the ceremony for us last night. It appears that he
 was turned out of office some two days before, impeached, as it were,
 for embezzling money.
 "All power was taken from him to act in the capacity of mayor. Thus
 the ceremony which we thought made us one is not binding. You are free
 as air. No one will be any the wiser, and you are none the worse for
 our little escapade--romance--call it what you will.
 "A little affair in the life of a telegraph operator will not set the
 heart of the great world throbbing with excitement. I am sorry affairs
 have turned out this way; for, upon my word, I could have liked you.
 There is but one thing to do under the circumstances; that is, to part
 company. I advise you to go quietly back and marry the rich lover Mrs.
 Deering has selected for you. That will be better than drudging your
 life away in a telegraph office.
 "This is all I have to say, and thus I take French leave of you.
 Forget me as quickly as you can, little girl. I am nearly dead broke,
 but I am generous enough to share what money I have with you. Inclosed
 you will find a twenty-dollar bill--quite enough to take you back to
 the village which you should never have left. Yours in great haste,
     "'ROYAL.'"
Once, twice, thrice--ay, a dozen times--the girl read the heartless
letter through until every word was scorched into her brain in letters
of fire, then it fluttered from her hands to the floor.
She sat quite still, like one petrified by a sudden awful horror; then
creeping to the window, she raised the sash, and, looking up into God's
face through the glinting sunshine, asked the angels in Heaven to
tell her if it was true that the husband she had but just wedded had
deserted her.
CHAPTER IX.
Again the poor child picked up the cruel letter; but she could not read
a line of it, though she sat looking at the written page.
"Not his wife!" she moaned over and over again, clutching her little
hands over her heart.
With a sudden frenzy she tore the letter into a thousand shreds, and
flung the pieces from her through the open window.
Would her poor, sick mother's heart break when she told her all? When
she went home, would they force her to marry the terrible being she
abhorred?
Home! Ah, God! what a mockery! She had only a shelter. If she refused
to marry the horrible hunchback, her mother and herself would not even
have that.
How could she face the future? The very thought of it made the blood
chill in her veins.
"Oh, Royal! Royal! death from your hands would have been easier than
that!" she moaned.
The next moment there was a heavy fall, and one of the house-maids,
passing the parlor, saw the girl lying in a heap.
They did all in their power to restore her to consciousness; but it
was quite useless. When they had worked an hour over her, they became
alarmed.
Where was her husband? Why did he not return? The hotel physician did
all in his power, but without avail.
"It looks like a case of brain fever," he said, "or perhaps typhoid.
Either is contagious, therefore dangerous. I should advise that she be
sent to the hospital around the corner."
"That husband of hers has not settled his bill!" exclaimed the
proprietor, his face darkening angrily.
"It is _my_ opinion," said the doctor, "that it is best not to await
the return of the young gentleman who accompanied her here. In short,
it is my opinion that he has deserted her."
In less time than it takes to tell it, poor, hapless Ida May, the
victim of such a cruel misfortune, and a sadder fate yet to follow, was
taken to the hospital. The waning summer days drifted slowly by, and
autumn came with its dead, rustling leaves and sobbing winds, before
Ida May opened her eyes to consciousness and turned them full upon the
white-capped nurse bending over her.
"Where is Royal?" she asked, faintly.
"You mean the young man who left you at the hotel?" queried the nurse,
who had heard the young girl's sad story; adding: "He never came back
to inquire for you. He has deserted you. He did not care whether or not
the shock would kill you. If there was ever a heartless scoundrel on
the face of the earth, he is that one!"
The lovely white young face never changed its pallor, the dark eyes
never left the grim countenance of the nurse.
"I want to leave this place at once," said the girl, attempting to rise
from her cot.
"No, no; you must not do so!" exclaimed the nurse. "It would be
dangerous in your case."
"But I want my mother," moaned Ida, piteously.
When the nurse made her rounds an hour later, to her great
consternation she found that Cot 27 was empty. The girl had flown! The
most diligent search through the city failed to elicit the slightest
trace of her whereabouts.
An hour later a little dark figure, ensconced in a corner of the car,
was whirling rapidly toward Dorchester.
She sat staring from the window with eyes that did not see so intent
was she with her own thoughts.
"I can not marry Mrs. Deering's nephew," she sobbed, under her breath.
"It would be easier for me to die. But what shall I do to raise the
money for which they hold my poor mother a veritable slave!"
She clasped her hands in piteous entreaty; but the soft, radiant moon
and the golden stars to which she raised her eyes so appealingly could
find no answer for her.
As the train slowed up at the station, she pulled her veil down
closely. She hurriedly alighted and sped like a storm-driven swallow
up the village street and along the high-road, until, almost out of
breath, she reached the Deerings' mansion. She stood transfixed for a
moment at the gate.
What was there about the place that caused such a shudder to creep over
her? What did the awful presentiment, as of coming evil, mean that took
possession of her body and soul?
CHAPTER X.
How weird the place looked, how gaunt and bare the great oak-trees
looked, looming up darkly against the moonlit sky! The dead leaves
rustled across her path as she crept around to the rear door.
She looked up at her mother's window, and another great chill crept
over her. All was dark there. It had always been her mother's custom
to place her lamp on the broad window-sill at night. Many a time it
had been her beacon-light in cutting across lots from the station on
evenings when she had been detained by her work. How strange it was
that the light was not in the window to-night!
"Mother is not expecting me to-night," she said to herself, "that is
the reason it is not there."
But ah, how she missed it! How her heart had yearned to behold it, with
a yearning so great that it had been the most intense pain. She lifted
the latch and entered tremblingly, hesitatingly. It had been over two
months since her mother had heard from her. How had her patient,
suffering mother lived through it?
As she crossed the hall she heard the sound of Mrs. Deering's voice in
a sharp, high key. Perhaps the horrible nephew was with her. She paused
in a paroxysm of terror. She was talking to her husband, scolding him,
rather.
"It isn't _my_ fault that we lost the fortune," he was answering her
meekly. "You brought your nephew out of the asylum too soon. You knew
he would not be here a fortnight before he would do some terrible
deed--burn the house down over our heads, or kill himself when the
attendant was not watching, or some other horrible deed of that kind.
When he did succeed in mutilating himself before any of us was aware
of it, instead of sending him back to the asylum, to be cared for, you
kept him here under lock and key thinking to cure him yourself in a
couple of months or so."
"Ah!" thought Ida May, leaning faint and dizzy against the wall, "now
I understand why Mrs. Deering consented to let me go away. Anything to
get me out of the house while she was curing the insane nephew whom she
had vowed I must wed."
The next words, while they shocked her inexpressively, lifted a world
of woe from her heart.
"Well, despite our watchfulness, he succeeded in killing himself at
last; so there's the end of it. The fortune is lost, and there's no use
in raving over it, and in venting your bitter wrath upon everything and
every one that comes within your range."
Mrs. Deering's anger was so great that she could not utter a word. She
flung open the door and dashed into the hall. The very first object
that met her gaze was the cowering little figure leaning against the
balustrade.
"You!" she cried, quite as soon as she could catch her breath. "How
dare you come here, Ida May, you wicked girl! I am amazed that you have
the effrontery to face honest people after what you have done! We read
all about it in the newspapers--how you ran away from Newport with a
gay, dashing fellow who soon after deserted you. Don't attempt to tell
me anything about it. I won't listen to a word. Get out of this house
as quick as you can! Go, before I bid the servants throw you from the
house!"
"But my mother! Surely you will let me see my mother!" sobbed the
girl, piteously. "The whole wide world may be against me, but she will
believe me guiltless! _Please_ let me see her."
A laugh that was horrible to hear broke from Mrs. Deering's thin lips.
"Your mother!" she sneered; "much you cared about her, or how your
doings affected her. That article in the newspapers did the work, as
you might have known it would. I carried the paper to her myself, and
when she read it she fell to the floor with a bitter cry, and she never
spoke again. It was her death-warrant!"
For one moment the girl looked at the woman with frightened eyes, as
though she could not quite comprehend the full import of what the woman
was saying.
"It killed your mother!" she repeated pitilessly. "You might have known
it would. She died of a broken heart!"
A long, low moan came from the girl's lips. The awful despair in the
dark eyes would have touched any other heart, even though it were made
of stone; but in Mrs. Deering's heart there was neither pity nor mercy.
"Go!" she repeated, threateningly, "and do not dare to ever darken my
door again!"
"Will you tell me where you have buried my poor mother?" moaned Ida
May, with bitter anguish.
"In the lot where the poor of the village are put," she answered,
unfeelingly. "We had to have a mark put over her. You can easily find
it. It's to the left-hand corner, the last one on the row. It would be
better for you, you shameless girl, if you were lying beside her rather
than sink to the lowest depths of the road you are traveling. Go--go at
once!"
With trembling feet she crept down the broad path and out of the gate.
She was drenched to the skin, and the chill October winds pierced
through her thin wet clothes like the sharp cut of a knife. It did not
matter much; nothing mattered for her any more. She was going to find
her mother's grave, kneel down beside it, lay her tired head on the
little green mound, and wait there for death to come to her, for surely
God would grant her prayer and in pity reach out His hand to her and
take her home. There would be a home _there_ where her mother was, even
if all other doors were closed to her.
She had little difficulty in finding the place--a small inclosure in
the rear of the old church that had fallen into decay and crumbling
ruins many years ago--and by the blinding flashes of lightning, she
found the grave of her mother--her poor, suffering mother, the only
being who had ever loved her in the great, cold, desolate earth.
"Mother," she sobbed, laying her face on the cold, wet leaves that
covered the mound, "mother, I have come to you to die. The world has
gone all wrong with me. I never meant to go wrong. I do not know how it
happened. Other young girls have married the lovers whom they thought
God had sent to them, and lived happy enough lives. I built such
glorious air-castles of the home I should have, the handsome, strong
young husband to love and to labor for me, and how you should live with
me, mother, never having to work any more. But oh, mother, all my plans
went wrong! I don't know why."
Ida May crouched there among the sleeping dead, her brain in a whirl;
and the long night wore on. The storm subsided, the wind died away over
the tossing trees and the far-off hills, and the rain ceased. Morning
broke faint and gray in the eastern sky, and the flecks of crimson
along the horizon presaged a bright and gladsome day.
The station-agent, hurrying along to his duties at that early hour,
was startled to see a dark figure lying among the graves. In a moment
he was bending over the prostrate form. He could not distinguish in
the dim light whose grave it was upon which the poor creature was
lying, but as he lifted the slender figure, and the faint, early light
fell upon the white, beautiful young face, he started back with an
exclamation of horror.
"Great God! it is little Ida May!"
For an instant he was incapable of action, his surprise was so intense.
"Dead!" he muttered, cold drops of perspiration standing out like beads
on his perturbed brow. "Little Ida May dead on her mother's grave!
God, how pitiful! She was so young to die!"
Then he knelt down beside her in the thick, wet grass, and placed his
hand over her heart in the wild hope that a spark of life might yet be
there.
CHAPTER XI.
With bated breath, Hugh Rowland, the station-agent, knelt down in the
dew-wet grass, and placed his hand over the girl's heart. Although the
sweet white face upturned to the gray morning light was as white as
death, he cried out sharply to himself: "Her heart still beats! God be
praised! There is life in her yet!"
Gathering her in his arms, as though she were a little child, he
carried her quickly across lots to the station, and placed her upon a
rude bench. Once there, he could control himself no longer. He dropped
upon his knees beside her, burying his face in the folds of her wet
dress, chafing her hands, and sobbing as though his heart would break.
He had loved the girl lying there so stark and motionless as he had
never loved anything in his life before; but he had never dared to tell
her of it. Though he was station-agent, and she a telegraph operator,
she seemed as far above him as the star is from the earth.
For a moment Hugh Rowland had almost lost control of himself; then he
remembered how horribly cold she was, and he had the presence of mind
to start a fire in the big stove that always stood in the center of the
waiting-room.
The grateful heat that rose from it quickly brought the breath of life
to the girl's white lips. The great, dark, somber eyes opened wide, and
she saw the rugged, kindly face of the young station-agent bending over
her.
"I found you--you had fainted in the graveyard," he said. "Luckily
enough, I was just passing, and I brought you here."
"Oh, why didn't you let me die?" moaned the girl, so bitterly that he
was shocked.
"It is very wicked to talk like that," he said, forcing down the great
lump that rose in his throat.
"No!" she cried, vehemently. "How could it be very wrong to leave a
great, cold, cruel world in which nobody wants you. I have nothing to
live for."
"But somebody does want you, Ida May!" cried the great rough fellow,
with tears that were no disgrace to his manhood coursing down his
cheek. "I want you with all my heart!"
"Hush, hush, hush!" she cried; "you must not talk so to me!" she cried.
"Don't say any more! It can never be! You do not know all!"
"Do not say me nay. Give me the right to protect you, Ida. We can go
away from this village. I can get a job on the road anywhere along the
line. I will work for you, and tend to you so very carefully that you
will forget the past!"
She only turned away from him, pleading with him for the love of Heaven
to say no more. He stopped short, looking at her gloomily. He had used
all the words that he could command, and they had been of no avail. She
would not even listen.
"One moment more!" he cried, hoarsely. "Always remember, Ida May, that
you leave behind you a heart that beats only for you--only for you. No
other woman's face shall ever win my love from you. I will wait here,
where you leave me, for long years, until you come back to me--ay, I
will wait from day to day with this one hope in my heart: Some day she
will come back to me; she will find the world too cold and hard, and
will come back to me to comfort her. I will watch for you from darkness
until day dawns again. My form, so straight now, may grow bent with
years, my hair grow white, and lines seam my face, but through it all I
shall watch for your coming until God rewards my vigilance. Good-bye,
and God bless you, Ida May, oh love of my heart!"
She passed from his sight with those words ringing in her ears, and
when the New York express passed on again after she had boarded it,
the young station-agent fell prone upon his face to the floor, and lay
there like one dead.
CHAPTER XII.
Few passengers turned to look at the little figure that entered the car
at the way-side station at so early an hour of the morning, and Ida May
cowered quickly down into the first seat. The clothes under the long,
dark cloak were saturated, but no one could see that, nor notice how
damp and matted were the curling rings of dark hair which the hood of
the cloak but half concealed. The hours crept on as the express whirled
over the rails; but Ida May paid no heed to time.
But hunger at last began to tell upon her, and she eagerly hailed a
boy who passed through the train with a basket of sandwiches on his arm.
She looked at the coins she still held loosely in her hand, and found
to her dismay that, with the exception of two pieces of silver, she
held a handful of gold dollars.
"His pocket-pieces," she sobbed. "Oh, if I had known that, I would have
refused to take them; but--but I will work and earn money, and--and pay
him back double their value. Poor fellow--poor fellow!" and she laid
her face on the window-sill, sobbing as though her heart would break.
Suddenly she heard a voice in the seat back of her say:
"You seem very much distressed, poor girl. Is there any way in which I
can serve you?"
The deep, musical voice was so kind, so humane, so sympathetic, that
Ida May turned around with a start to see who it was who had asked the
question.
She saw directly back of her a fair, handsome young man who had
evidently just entered the car, and who was depositing his grip-sack
and umbrella in the rack above his head.
At the first glance a faint shriek broke from her lips. She was just
about to cry out, "Royal Ainsley--great Heaven!--do we meet again?"
when she saw her error in time. Although bearing a certain resemblance
to the lover who had so cruelly betrayed her, a second glance told her
it was not him.
It was a moment ere she recovered herself sufficiently to answer, then
she faltered, piteously:
"I _am_ in sorrow, sir, so great that I do not think any young girl
but me could ever pass through it--and live."
"I do not wish to pry into your private affairs," said the young man,
courteously, "but I wish to repeat, if you will tell me what troubles
you, and I can be of service to you, I shall be only too pleased.
Although a stranger, you will find me worthy of your confidence, my
poor child!"
There was something about the handsome, kindly, blue-eyed young man
that caused Ida May's heart to go out to him at once. His was a face
that women always trusted, and no one had ever had cause to regret it.
"I am going to New York in search of work," faltered the girl, clasping
her little hands closely together.
"That is certainly reason enough to weep," he replied earnestly. "May I
ask if you have friends there to whom you are going until you can find
employment?"
Ida May shook her head, her breast heaved, her white lips quivered,
while great tears welled up to the great dark eyes, so like purple
velvet pansies drowned in rain.
"I have no friends--no one. I am all alone in the world, sir," she
sobbed. "My mother is dead--dead. I have just left her grave. She and
I were all in all to each other; now she is gone, and I--Oh, only the
angels know that no sorrow is so bleak, so pitiful, so awful, as to be
all alone in the world."
"I can understand the situation perfectly," he answered in a low voice,
"and I can pity you. Although not quite alone in the world myself, I am
almost as badly off. But to return to yourself: I may be able to serve
you. What kind of employment were you intending to search for? In some
store, or dress-making or millinery establishment?" he queried.
She looked blankly up into his fair, handsome, earnest face.
"I do not know how to do anything of that kind," she answered, simply.
"I thought perhaps I might find employment in some telegraph office."
"Why, yes, indeed. I wonder that that idea did not occur to me before.
A friend of mine is superintendent of a large branch of the Western
Union, up Broadway. I will give you a note to him, and I have no doubt
he will do all in his power to aid you, providing he has a vacancy."
"Oh, thank you a thousand times, sir," cried Ida May, thankfully; "I
shall be so grateful--oh, so very grateful!"
"Mind, it is not a certainty, you know," admonished the stranger
earnestly; "I can only write the letter. But that is not assuring you
of a situation--we can only hope for it."
He tore out a leaf from his memorandum, and taking a gold pencil from
his vest pocket, hastily jotted down a few lines upon it.
"I am sorry I am not going through to New York; otherwise I would take
